README.md, before:

# Developer Console

Developer Console for Unity with easy integration to existing projects.

[WebGL demo](https://anarkila.github.io/DeveloperConsole/Demo)

### Use cases 
- Development cheats
- Debug assistance
- In game cheat codes, change settings easily etc

![thumbnail](https://github.com/anarkila/DeveloperConsole/blob/main/Images/large_dark.PNG)

## Getting Started
1. Download and import [DeveloperConsole package](https://github.com/anarkila/DeveloperConsole/releases/download/v1.0.2/DeveloperConsole_1.0.2.unitypackage) into your project
2. Drag & drop DeveloperConsole prefab into your scene
3. Add ``[ConsoleCommand()]`` attribute to your methods like below. See [ConsoleExamples.cs](https://github.com/anarkila/DeveloperConsole/blob/main/Console/Assets/DeveloperConsole/Example%20scenes/Example%20scripts/ConsoleExamples.cs) for all examples. 
4. Play your scene and press ``§`` to toggle Developer Console

```C#
using UnityEngine;

public class ExampleScript : MonoBehaviour {

    [ConsoleCommand("test")]
    private void Test() {
        Debug.Log("Called 'test' from Console!");
    }
    
    [ConsoleCommand("test_int")]
    private void TestInt(int i) {
       // single parameter allowed types: 
       // int, float, string, bool, double, char, string[], Vector2, Vector3, Vector4, Quaternion
       Debug.Log(string.Format("Called 'test_int' with value: {0} from Console!", i));
    }

    [ConsoleCommand("test_multi")]
    private void TestMulti(int i, float f) {
       // multi parameter allowed types:
       // int, float, string, bool, double, char
       Debug.Log(string.Format("Called 'test_multi' with value: {0} and {1} from Console!", i, f));
    }
}
```

## Features

- Call static, non-static and Unity Coroutines methods (both public and private)
- No parameter and optional parameter(s) support
- Single parameter support with following types:
    - int, float, string, bool, double, char, string[], Vector2, Vector3, Vector4, Quaternion
- Multi parameter support with following types:
    - int, float, string, bool, double, char
- Easy drag & drop setup
- Mono and IL2CPP support
- Desktop and WebGL support
- Domain/Scene reload support ([Enter Play Mode](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/ConfigurableEnterPlayMode.html))
- Simple static [runtime API](https://github.com/anarkila/DeveloperConsole/blob/main/Console/Assets/DeveloperConsole/Scripts/Console.cs)
- 2 GUI styles: [Large](https://github.com/anarkila/DeveloperConsole/blob/main/Images/large_dark.PNG) and [Minimal](https://github.com/anarkila/DeveloperConsole/blob/main/Images/minimal.png)
- Draggable & resizable window (Large GUI only)
- Log messages into Console Window (``Console.Log``, ``Debug.Log`` and ``Debug.LogError``)
- Input predictions
- [Settings](https://github.com/anarkila/DeveloperConsole/blob/main/Images/settings.PNG) to tweak
- GUI themes ([Dark](https://github.com/anarkila/DeveloperConsole/blob/main/Images/large_dark.PNG), [Darker](https://github.com/anarkila/DeveloperConsole/blob/main/Images/large_darker.png), [Red](https://github.com/anarkila/DeveloperConsole/blob/main/Images/large_red.PNG) or Custom)
- Documentation and example scenes

## Default Commands
Developer Console comes with few commands by default.

* ``help`` - Print list of available commands
* ``quit`` - Quit the application
* ``close`` - Close Console
* ``clear`` - Clear all Console messages
* ``reset`` - Reset Console window to default size and position (Large GUI only)
* ``max_fps (int)`` - Set [Application.TargetFrameRate](https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/Application-targetFrameRate.html)
* ``console_style`` - Toggle GUI style between Large and Minimal

Editor and Development build only:

* ``scene_loadindex (int)`` - Load scene asynchronously by build index
* ``scene_addloadindex (int)`` - Load scene asynchronously additively by build index
* ``scene_loadname (string)`` - Load scene asynchronously by scene name
* ``scene_unloadindex (int)`` - Unload scene asynchronously by build index
* ``scene_unloadname (string)`` - Unload scene asynchronously by scene name
* ``scene_information`` - Print Scene count and names
* ``empty`` - Log empty line to console
* ``debug_renderinfo`` - Print rendering information: High and Avg FPS, highest draw call, batches, triangle and vertices count. This command is editor only.
* ``log_to_file`` - Log all current messages to .txt file. This command is Editor only.

## Logging
``Console.Log("hello")`` to output directly into Developer Console window. 

``Console.Log("hello", Color.red)`` with color.

``Console.Log("<color=red>hello</color>")`` with Rich Text color.

By default Unity ``Debug.Log()`` or ``Debug.LogError()`` messages will also output to Developer Console.

## Notes
- Requires Unity 2019 or later
- Uses old Unity input system
- Uses Gameobject based UI
- Uses TextMeshPro

Commit message:

Update README.md to explain fork
Forking package for use for development of Scorching Engines.

README.md, after:

# Developer Console

Developer Console for Unity with easy integration to existing projects.

## Fork
Forked to support development of [Scorching Engines](https://store.steampowered.com/app/2640660/Scorching_Engines/). <br>
No compatibility with other Unity versions than the one used for SE's development will be tested, and may not be supported.
Development will cater to SE's requirement first and foremost, so might not cater to others needs.

Features not needed for SE might be stripped. 

### Demo
[WebGL demo](https://anarkila.github.io/DeveloperConsole/Demo)

### Use cases 
- Development cheats
- Debug assistance
- In game cheat codes, change settings easily etc

![thumbnail](https://github.com/anarkila/DeveloperConsole/blob/main/Images/large_dark.PNG)

## Getting Started
1. Download and import [DeveloperConsole package](https://github.com/anarkila/DeveloperConsole/releases/download/v1.0.2/DeveloperConsole_1.0.2.unitypackage) into your project
2. Drag & drop DeveloperConsole prefab into your scene
3a. Add ``[ConsoleCommand()]`` attribute to your methods like below. See [ConsoleExamples.cs](https://github.com/anarkila/DeveloperConsole/blob/main/Console/Assets/DeveloperConsole/Example%20scenes/Example%20scripts/ConsoleExamples.cs) for all examples. 
3b. Make sure your script is attached to a gameobject in the scene. As monobehaviour scripts not attached to a gameobject won't be picked up.
4. Play your scene and press ``§`` to toggle Developer Console

```C#
using UnityEngine;

public class ExampleScript : MonoBehaviour {

    [ConsoleCommand("test")]
    private void Test() {
        Debug.Log("Called 'test' from Console!");
    }
    
    [ConsoleCommand("test_int")]
    private void TestInt(int i) {
       // single parameter allowed types: 
       // int, float, string, bool, double, char, string[], Vector2, Vector3, Vector4, Quaternion
       Debug.Log(string.Format("Called 'test_int' with value: {0} from Console!", i));
    }

    [ConsoleCommand("test_multi")]
    private void TestMulti(int i, float f) {
       // multi parameter allowed types:
       // int, float, string, bool, double, char
       Debug.Log(string.Format("Called 'test_multi' with value: {0} and {1} from Console!", i, f));
    }
}
```

## Features

- Call static, non-static and Unity Coroutines methods (both public and private)
- No parameter and optional parameter(s) support
- Single parameter support with following types:
    - int, float, string, bool, double, char, string[], Vector2, Vector3, Vector4, Quaternion
- Multi parameter support with following types:
    - int, float, string, bool, double, char
- Easy drag & drop setup
- Mono and IL2CPP support
- Desktop and WebGL support
- Domain/Scene reload support ([Enter Play Mode](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/ConfigurableEnterPlayMode.html))
- Simple static [runtime API](https://github.com/anarkila/DeveloperConsole/blob/main/Console/Assets/DeveloperConsole/Scripts/Console.cs)
- 2 GUI styles: [Large](https://github.com/anarkila/DeveloperConsole/blob/main/Images/large_dark.PNG) and [Minimal](https://github.com/anarkila/DeveloperConsole/blob/main/Images/minimal.png)
- Draggable & resizable window (Large GUI only)
- Log messages into Console Window (``Console.Log``, ``Debug.Log`` and ``Debug.LogError``)
- Input predictions
- [Settings](https://github.com/anarkila/DeveloperConsole/blob/main/Images/settings.PNG) to tweak
- GUI themes ([Dark](https://github.com/anarkila/DeveloperConsole/blob/main/Images/large_dark.PNG), [Darker](https://github.com/anarkila/DeveloperConsole/blob/main/Images/large_darker.png), [Red](https://github.com/anarkila/DeveloperConsole/blob/main/Images/large_red.PNG) or Custom)
- Documentation and example scenes

## Default Commands
Developer Console comes with few commands by default.

* ``help`` - Print list of available commands
* ``quit`` - Quit the application
* ``close`` - Close Console
* ``clear`` - Clear all Console messages
* ``reset`` - Reset Console window to default size and position (Large GUI only)
* ``max_fps (int)`` - Set [Application.TargetFrameRate](https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/Application-targetFrameRate.html)
* ``console_style`` - Toggle GUI style between Large and Minimal

Editor and Development build only:

* ``scene_loadindex (int)`` - Load scene asynchronously by build index
* ``scene_addloadindex (int)`` - Load scene asynchronously additively by build index
* ``scene_loadname (string)`` - Load scene asynchronously by scene name
* ``scene_unloadindex (int)`` - Unload scene asynchronously by build index
* ``scene_unloadname (string)`` - Unload scene asynchronously by scene name
* ``scene_information`` - Print Scene count and names
* ``empty`` - Log empty line to console
* ``debug_renderinfo`` - Print rendering information: High and Avg FPS, highest draw call, batches, triangle and vertices count. This command is editor only.
* ``log_to_file`` - Log all current messages to .txt file. This command is Editor only.

## Logging
``Console.Log("hello")`` to output directly into Developer Console window. 

``Console.Log("hello", Color.red)`` with color.

``Console.Log("<color=red>hello</color>")`` with Rich Text color.

By default Unity ``Debug.Log()`` or ``Debug.LogError()`` messages will also output to Developer Console.

## Notes
- Requires ~~Unity 2019 or later~~ Unity 6.1 currently. Support with other versions than whats used for SE is not guaranteed
- Uses old Unity input system
- Uses Gameobject based UI
- Uses TextMeshPro
